all right folks welcome back
this is our
25th episode
of the free youtube
ict mentorship for 2022
and i want to open this video up with a
very
brief
monologue okay all right some of you are
trying to scrub the video get past this
part
but bear with me just for a few moments
please
i want you to think about
how i opened this mentorship up
how i promised certain things
i said you would learn
specific logic that would repeat
that it would be
algorithmic
it would look
similar each time it does it
there would be specific rules implied
that you would have to follow
and i taught on the basis of time
and price
so there's going to be things that
obviously repeat with those themes
but i want you to go into tonight's
lesson
with those promises in the forefront of
your mind
is what i'm teaching
and has
what i've been teaching
exactly what i promised
are you seeing it in the chart yourself
now i'm not asking
for a show of hands how many of you are
profitable trading
with live funds that's not what i'm
saying here
none of you should be trading with life
funds with this you're all still
learning it
i'm reading some of the comments and
some people are raising their hand up
saying i just killed it today using what
you thought made this much money blah
blah blah
i don't want you doing that
okay because what you're doing is you're
rushing in
because you have a sugar rush you have a
high right now
because you're seeing things that make
sense to you it resonates with you and
that's great
but don't be in a hurry to get out there
and try to make money yet
there's things like you'll see tonight
that will help you still when you think
you've already learned it you haven't
and this is for the folks that are
commenting in my videos
saying that there are other people
that'll teach what i'm teaching better
and to the point
nobody knows what i'm teaching i'm
teaching this for the first time
okay and you don't know the details
behind what it is i'm teaching you don't
know how far i'm going to take it and
most of these guys don't even really
trade
so they sound like
smart
geniuses after the fact
with market replay or old data
and they have my vocabulary
what i do is i call it before it happens
i outline it why it should happen
because that's proof of understanding
the logic that that's understanding the
algorithm
i'm not implementing like i'm not
putting anything in here with supply and
demand and mr chris laurie can come here
and tell me if i'm teaching or trading
anything like him because i promise you
none of this is found in his stuff
period okay
so
when you see folks say
this person teaches ict better than ict
or more to the point really what they're
saying is
they
truncate
the concepts down to
demonstrating hindsight
so that way it makes them
able to sell courses to the neophytes
notice i'm not selling you anything
i have already made millions of dollars
i don't need to hold my hand out and ask
you to pay my bills
i do this because i love doing it i
don't have a paypal
i don't have a credit card swiper i
don't have
a cash app i don't do any of those
things i do this because i love doing it
and i am absolutely loving
hannah fx or hannah 4x
youtube channel because number one it's
given me the female
perspective
and someone i think that is really
trying to make a a go of it
and i'm not
concerned whether she really sticks with
it long term and she may come to the
conclusion that this is not worth it for
her or
it doesn't really jive
it doesn't matter i'm interested in her
development
i'm interested in all of your
developments
obviously i can't follow every single
person that follows me on youtube and
some of you may be feeling slighted like
why'd you pick her and not my channel
please don't look at it that way
understand it from a father's
perspective because
i look at all of you like my children
even those that are older than me
i try to teach you with the mindset that
someone that has been through this
longer than most of you if not all of
you
and i don't want to see you get hurt
but i also have a daughter that i'm
trying to inspire to do this on her own
because i don't want her relying on
another man
to feed her to take care of her
and i also want her to be able to break
those lines of feeling comfortable
because she's our daughter
so i'm
actively interested
in
this particular youtuber
for the reason because i have a daughter
that i'm trying to draw affinity with
trading through her
okay so
it may not work but it's just
me
seeing how
another young lady
that is inspired to
dig into these charts and understand
what they're doing why they're doing
what they're doing
and hopefully that will inspire my
daughter okay so
for the folks that are emailing me and
saying hey look can you follow me can
you do this can you do that just
understand that
it's not my interest to try to you know
sprinkle myself over everyone's channel
because i think
for the most part
when i make an appearance in their
comment section
it's just like
a rush of people coming in and like
high-fiving me and
you pray praising me in their comment
section i don't like that i don't want
to do that if you all would just refrain
from doing it i'd probably comment more
on other people's channels but i think
it's rude okay i don't think it's
appropriate
and to those that i have made a
appearance in their comment section and
my friends and associates and students
that have come behind and created like a
circus environment around it
apologize because that's not what i'm
showing up for i'm going there because
either i watched your video i felt that
you gave something that was useful to
the community or i just i just liked it
so
there's that
so with all that let's get into
the meat
all right so we're looking at
the e-mini s p futures june 2022
delivery contract price action for the
daily chart now before i get into this
please
write this in your journal
okay
put your sandwich down and turn the tv
off
excuse yourself from your children and
your spouse go in another room i promise
rowling will be here for a couple
minutes tonight
everything i'm teaching you here
works in forex
okay it works in forex it's not limited
to index futures
please stop asking questions in the
comment section that are answered if you
just simply paid attention to the videos
i've already produced okay maybe some of
you just recently got to this
and you came to this video first
don't start here go back to the very
first one okay
now when we're looking at the daily
chart i want you to think about what it
is that i talked about before happening
explained in great detail why it should
take place
and when the chart looked like this
remember i was talking about how that
specific order block
was a catalyst for setting up a future
move
that shouldn't see the high of that
candle pierced in other words that's the
most unlikely level
that's being here right here okay
price should not go to and through that
this is the most unlikely level to be
traded to with a bearish order block now
for some of you like oh can you teach
order blocks i've already taught and
introduced order blocks for some of you
that are asking about order blocks
watch my sniper series okay the scout
sniper series it's in his youtube
channel it's free
i introduced the order block there and
i'm also teaching more
throughout the other series and
specifically in this one
now
that's not the whole
of this model it's not the
secret sauce okay the fair value gap is
what i'm trying to teach you to focus on
because that small little area in price
action that is the thing
that is the easiest if i were to be
asked simply what is it that's the
easiest thing for a new trader to sit
down and understand right away
that's what this mentorship is
this is somebody that has never traded
before
that doesn't really know a whole lot
about technical analysis
this is my introductory version of that
uh there's a lot of people and hannah
mentioned this before she doesn't
believe that my concepts are for
like the neophyte the brand new
i went in with that mindset with this
teaching series now obviously i'm not
going to teach what a pip is i'm not
going to teach
you know how to calculate you know
the smallest fluctuation in price
because those things can be googled okay
there's a there are obvious things that
anyone can look up
but the basic of basic understanding the
time axis down here on the bottom and
the price access up here and
understanding how to find the time
frames like this is a daily chart you
can see that right here
i work through trading view you may not
want to use trading game maybe you use
sierra charts maybe you use
ninjatrader maybe you use tradestation
two
all those things or
td ameritrade there's all these
different brokers out there but what i
want you to learn through
and practice through is trading view
okay you don't need to have a
subscription
to do what i'm showing you
you don't need to pay for anything
you'll see ads and it's okay but the
bottom line is is
i want you to look at the charts like
this then you can segue into whatever
your platform is
and work with it there but understand
learning the way i'm teaching you with
this medium is the best way of doing it
so with that
understand that i mentioned that we
would go into this area here not trade
to the top of that candle and all this
is mentioned in this
mentorship series go back and watch
those videos
and i mentioned that we would draw down
into here
and into here
so underneath that low here in these
relative equal lows that's cell side
liquidity
what was the framework
that led to me telling you that this was
a bearish order block or watching that
and that could set up a run into our may
seasonal tendency now seasonal
tendencies are
times in a year where markets or
specific asset classes
will move
generally not always not a hundred
percent of time not absolutely never
going to fail
they historically have produced
price swings that follow a seasonal
tenancy that means they usually happen
and one of the things i like to use as a
i guess an analogy would be
i live on the east coast of the united
states so if i live in the east coast of
the united states
and i reside in maryland okay
would it be reasonable for me to expect
snow on the 4th of july
no
what's more likely
sunny hot
okay so that's the seasonal influence
well that same influence not that
specific not that that dramatic
obviously but there are periods in the
year where the markets have a tendency
to do certain things
may tends to be a month where the market
in index futures and stocks they
generally drop they go down
i gave you that beforehand i explained
it to you now i didn't give you the
details about it but just understand
going in every single year
about the last week or so of april going
into the month of may
there's usually a tendency for these
markets specifically the s p the nasdaq
the dow the russell
that
group of markets
tends to be weak
not all the time but generally if you
study go back through old data you'll
see that's true now
by itself
it doesn't really mean much
but
in the hands of someone that's initiated
with what i'm teaching you
it is a road map
to consistency
you can practice and learn a lot about
price action by doing this every single
year going through old data and then you
can forward test it going into next year
and all the years after
but what took place
was we had these relative equal highs i
mentioned this they took the buy stops
or buy side liquidity out
who's doing that
smart money
these individuals that go in and they
sell to these buy stops when it's like
this and at the same time when we're
entering a period of time where there's
a bearish
seasonal tendency that means
bearish prices lower expected going into
may
so we're seeing a run on liquidity here
with this high so it bumps
above these highs and then breaks down
then we go into an area i mentioned that
it's very shorter block and i said we're
gonna aim for here and then under here
and another under here
okay so i gave you a perspective
beforehand so that we could study it
each day looking for lower prices
going in looking for the pattern i
taught you
in this mentorship
around specific elements of time we had
this big move
from here
down here where it attacked the cell
stops or sell side liquidity
what took place here
smart money sold to the buy stops
so now they're sitting with a net short
position
how do they get out of that position
they have to buy it back
how can they buy it back at a cheaper
price
guaranteeing them
that they're going to be buying from
lower priced sellers
fine to sell stocks here sell side
liquidity rest below here why are there
sale stocks below there because traders
have models that
want to capture these types of moves
and expect things like this high to be
taken out before they start trailing
their stop loss large fund traders
not
retail rick that trades on mt4
okay that's not what i'm talking about
but historically you're going to find
out that retail traders are going to
have many times their stop losses in the
same area that large funds will the only
difference in the only contrast between
the two is that retail rick or people
that are very small speculators
the small traders liquidity is so
minute it's tiny it's irrelevant
but that argument is used by people that
don't understand what they're talking
about because they'll say
what i'm teaching
other quote unquote institutional
traitors or other youtubers laugh when
they say they look at what i'm teaching
they say it doesn't work or it's
nonsense or it's a fallacy
these same people aren't going out and
saying how it's a policy when i'm
calling you before it happens and now
when i say things like that that takes
people that want to come in critically
and say look he's bragging i'm not
bragging i'm asking you all to come in
and investigate the things i'm teaching
if they don't hold up they won't hold up
but if they hold up and the things i'm
talking about happen before they happen
what does that
mean
does it mean it's luck
no is it leaning on any retail logic no
it's not support and resistance it's not
supplying demand
i'm trading with factors that are
outside of that
so what is it i'm teaching you
liquidity i'm showing you that market
efficiency paradigm that i taught early
in this series where you are being
trained to go into the marketplace and
look at how liquidity that is resting in
the market or will be engineered
to be there where you want it to be
what's that mean
above old highs
those buy stops are being triggered
so smart money can go short they're
selling short to these buy stops and
they're gonna buy it back from resting
sell stops that are resting below here
sales liquidity
so we're not looking at patterns sake
trading
we're not looking at indicators
we're not trying to reinvent the wheel
rename old retail logic that's flawed
and gimmicked
i'm teaching you a whole different
perspective on how these markets look
they have always looked like this
the advantage is
that everything is switched
to electronic trading that means it's
much more efficient and faster
so
me teaching this
is not going to change the fact that
this is what goes on
okay
it will not stop working
you will have losing trades if you treat
with life funds
understand that i have losing trades
you're going to have losing trades
but you're going to understand
why you're wrong
you won't beat yourself up about it if
you're smart and listen to what i'm
telling you to do and avoid the things
that toxic thoughts build
but you will know more specifically
the times
and locations where these formations are
likely to be successful
understand the difference between that
it's not promising profitability
it's not promising 100
win rate i'm not promising you a high
rate of return because all of you are in
a driver's seat
but look at this chart
is this not what i outlined before it
happened
absolutely it is
so
this is on a daily chart this is
answering the folks that say you know i
don't want to do this intraday trading
with your target audience my target
audience is whoever wants to listen
and then they're going to take what i'm
teaching and scale it to whatever time
frame they want to utilize if they want
to be a swing trader this is it this is
the model that i showed you right here
just being applied
to this time frame
if you don't see the logic behind it
it's because you're still early in your
stages of development it's okay don't
rush it don't be in a hurry to
understand everything and feel like
you're
you're going to lose your mind if you
don't have it understood you know in a
couple weeks
just enjoy the process
i'm giving you the logic and i'm showing
you where it's going to go before it
happens when it's applicable i'm not
promising to do that i'm not an oracle
for you okay
all right so we're looking at
this area here
where it drops below this old low
it does it here and here on a shallow
basis but then we have this real nice
decline yesterday
on monday's trading
so i want to take you into this
right here and kind of like build on the
idea of what liquidity
does once it takes out old lows like
this what can it do
so we're zoomed in on monday's trading
here
here's friday's trading and i want to
take your attention to
something i talked way way way back in
when i was on baby pips and i was
contributing to that community
and
as
a
reminder one of the things i taught was
study the last three days
the open the high the low and the close
in the last three days
now
for those of you that were part of that
community back then and knew me then
it was my
laboratory experiment to see if anybody
would start seeing the things that i saw
early on in my development because
nobody really sat down and said hey ict
you know look at the open high low and
close in the last three days and you're
gonna find this thing okay
but
if you were doing those types of things
nobody not one person
came to the realization of the fair
value gap
nobody did
okay
so
no one's going to be able to come out
and say oh yeah i was that guy no i was
that gap nobody did that okay
i shared this fair value got
because number one it's powerful two
it's
not going to stop working
and it's unique to everything else out
there
and it's very specific where it forms
and i give you some criteria on how you
can find where they form also that are
not necessarily
where you might expect
but i'm also going to incorporate some
of the things like
rebalancing
and then where does this formation form
i want to take your attention into this
candle here last friday's low
so if this was monday go back the last
three days you go here
here and here now is there a fair value
gap in that no
but
look what monday's trading did it opened
extended down and closed near the low it
was rather large range today
okay great wonderful what do you do with
that information
go back to the previous day's low
if you go back to the previous day's low
this is going to be important
because if you do this
the next trading day which is tuesday
today's production video date
the 10th of may 2022 if we open up and
because we're below those relative equal
lows on the daily chart
and we're below this swing low
also
we're now
you know in a deep discount we don't try
to pick bottoms
okay we don't try to call the long-term
lows while markets are bearish try to
avoid doing i know it seems like it's
possible because everybody makes videos
on youtube and they write books and they
do articles and they say they did this
and say they did that they picked the
top they picked the bottom
i promise you i know a lot and i have
lost more money
more money
trying to do that than any other thing
you don't need to do that
okay so now think about what this
bias has been
on these markets what have i stated
publicly you all know
i've been bearish right
so
when you see a big down day like
this all the indicators are going to
flash oversold
oversold
okay
i'm not trying to pick a bottom but
indicator followers will look for
bullish divergence because they think
they're going to catch the ultimate low
and they're gonna ride it up when they
even if they were lucky to buy the low
the chances of holding it long term
not likely so it's a fallacy to try to
pursue that don't think like that
when we have a bias
collectively as traders i'm not just
saying me specifically for my model
if any of you are trading
try to avoid trying to pick the tops and
the bottoms there's a lot of meat in
between the major turning points
and you can afford to be wrong at the
end because once you're wrong it'll be
obvious then you can get insane and go
the other way if you have draw down just
work on getting it back and then working
that
middle of the move type idea
it serves you well
but i want to take this idea here and
we're going to drop down into a lower
time frame
after we see today's
price accident trade right up in here
now this looks like an indecisive day
so if you're looking at a daily chart it
can be a little
confusing like you know what took place
this is a mixed day they'll call it
no
no no no no
let's go into this
formation right here
okay i'm going to give you some logic
now here's the time when we get into the
ict videos that a large percent of you
do not want to do this part
you're welcome to obviously not listen
but you're going to miss the opportunity
of learning
i want you to look at this price action
in this fractal now what is a fractal
fractal is a piece of price action
that's doing
something that i'm trying to draw your
attention to okay we're studying a very
small segment of price action that's a
fractal
so
if we're looking at this and this is
that old
low that i extended on the daily chart
now it's being visualized on an hourly
time frame so every one of these candles
is not a daily candle
which shows the highest high and lowest
level daily range it's now an hourly
chart where it shows the highest high
and lowest low of each individual hour
interval i want you to think about what
you see here
now for those of you that are new
don't be discouraged if you don't see
what i'm going to show but
pause the video
and look for what you can identify from
what i've taught you so far in this
mentorship
do not
rush through this pause it think about
what you see
and then unpause the video when you're
ready
you know who you
are you're missing out you should have
paused it
alright so let's add some detail first
in perspective
you want to break your
daily ranges up by the day
and i talk that midnight starts to cross
over to a new day i don't care what
anybody else tells you
this is how the algorithm works it
operates on this timeline okay it's on
new york time
so
at midnight here
on tuesday we start here the opening
price is here if you draw that out in
time
it goes up it goes down and it comes
right back to the close
to where it opened up at midnight and it
would get very close to what that daily
chart showed that indecisive candle
where it was a lot of wick to the upside
a little bit of wick down to the
downside and a small little body okay
that
looks indecisive
on that time frame
but
if you look
closer and you start framing out the
things i taught you
here is
relative equal highs
old low
what's resting above relative equal
highs
buy side liquidity
what's resting below and all low
sell side liquidity
the market runs
above
at 9 30
it hits that old low
that red line here that old low it hits
that there right at 9 30.
then
all of the buy side is purged that means
all of these spy stops have now been
drug into the market by their hair
kicking and screaming
they're in they're caught long or
they've been short and they've been
knocked out of their short position
either way it doesn't matter to us we
just know that that buy side liquidity
is likely to be utilized
to set up an idea for smart money to be
short why because the bias is bearish we
have not changed gears
we're not trying to pick the bottom
so if we're doing this like smart money
and we're looking at the market like
this and we want to be short up here at
this trigger event which we'll look at
in a moment
where would you want to off set that
short position well you have a nice
little short term low here so you can
take partial below that it hits it
beautifully
and the previous stays low and it does
that
run below that low here just as
handsomely as it did here
so
let's go in and use the logic with this
idea of rebalancing monday's daily range
keying off of this level here
notice that the buy side liquidity is
ran first
this is really important folks
if we would have gone down
and took the previous low
out then ran up here that to me is not
bearish
this
running above buys liquidity here
at 9 30
hitting that without having this low
taken out that is bearish
because it's within the context of the
bias that we're looking for
when we're operating in the
a bearish bias what we're essentially
saying is the market's going to go up to
a premium
for one of two reasons run an old high
or highs
to take out buy side liquidity so that
way smart money can counterparty with
them with their short positions they're
going to sell to those buy stops
then seeking to buy cheaper sell side
liquidity that would be their pool of
liquidity to
offset
distribute their shorts below here so
they're going to sell here at a high
price and buy it back at a cheaper price
this is not a random unknown low it's in
the marketplace soon as that day close
that low is known to everyone but the
liquidity resting below that is not
necessarily a target or utilization for
anybody in any other retail idea
that's what i'm trying to
shake you by your lapels and say pay
attention
i'm showing you how to look at the
marketplace like smart money not like
white golf this is not like off okay
it's not sam side and stuff
all these things that people like to
attribute this is not it
this is mine this is i'm telling you how
these markets operate
and if it's not happening after i say it
happens or should happen then i'm a
fraud it's fake it doesn't hold up but
guess what it works folks
look at all the people that are now
digging their nose in their charts now
with this idea
come on now
it's catching fire because it's
simplified now
and i'm showing you what works and it's
exciting isn't it it's interesting to
see these things panning out all the
time every single week
every single day
and it won't stop
the second pool of liquidity
is the sell side liquidity so it runs
the buy side first with the bearish bias
so it's doing what i've taught in this
mentorship it goes up to a premium
then seeks a discount
see that
now we're going to drop into a 15 minute
time frame
zoom on in and get a little bit more
details here and now i have added the 8
time frame here
and we have the relative equal highs the
market at 8 30 we're looking for what to
happen
the news and bar go to lift that means
that the algorithm will start seeking
liquidity as early as that time frame
now it might wait till 9 30
and this candle here is 9 30.
notice it hits it right there
where we're
drawing your attention to because it's
rebalancing that entire monday range
it's going back to
the previous day prior to monday
it's old low
on friday
so when you see that it rebalances the
big drop on monday
it tricks people into thinking that it's
made the low
and it's going to keep going up
when the only thing it has done is it's
gone up to a logical level on that daily
time frame
that rebalances
all of that
sell-off on monday
it's been rebalanced
so
if you look at the ninth on the
15-minute time frame this does not look
like it's
an imbalance but on a daily candle it's
a large down day
so
all of this movement here is big in
terms of distribution on the downside
this is retracement back up into a
logical level which is friday's low
and it hits it based on the elements
that i taught you and it's following
what the logic is that i shared publicly
in this series
look for relative equal highs at 8 30
it's going to start looking for high or
highs to run
that's these over here how far can it go
that's that friday low
there's your framework this is that
judas swing that fake rally up
okay
think about what the daily candle looked
like
before we started dropping down the
lower time frames
it was a big wick up and a little bit of
a wick down but it was a small little
body on the candle
for tuesday's trading but if you look at
it from the lens of power three how i
teach you the accumulation
at 8 30 use the opening price that's
down here draw that out in time
the rally should take place above that
it's a logical level i'm teaching you
then it creates the pattern that's in
the mentorship
fair value gap
market structure shift
then starts to show displacement and
distribution to the downside attacking a
discount array
so
this is your power three where it opens
rally's up creates the high and trades
down there's your move power three but
it's inside that daily candle that looks
indecisive right
so you have to understand what you're
looking at relative to time and price
when you do that it takes away all that
confusion it provides more clarity we're
going to drop down into a five-minute
chart and start building this into a
very visual representation of what
you've been learning in this series
midnight new york
news embargo at 8 30 is lifted now there
wasn't a whole lot of news this morning
admittedly but this
still the same logic relative equal
highs at 8 30 starts the algorithm
what's it going to do it's going to run
for a premium why because the bias is
bearish it's going to return likely up
into that friday low to rebalance
monday's trading
its bearish candle is being rebalanced
and at 9 30 am the equity market opens
that's what this little manipulation is
okay what is 9 30 that's when you expect
this little type of a move but it begins
at 8 30.
so that hour-long interval
we're expecting when we're bearish a run
higher to set up shorts
now the short can form inside that hour
or it could just provide the leg that
sets up the framework that will
eventually like i'm going to show you
here provide you the setup so all all of
it is
a matter of
studying what the market's providing you
it doesn't change the rules i'm not
bending the rules i'm giving you the
logic behind when these algorithms do
what they're doing
when price starts to spool from 8 30 up
in to friday's low
at 9 30 that's that manipulation time
where they create that little
opportunity where it looks like it's
going to do something but it's
generally the opposite of what it looks
like on the chart and large retail is
going to see that as it's breaking out
it's going higher and they're going to
buy it and chase it
and then they have their hinder parts
handed to them
and then they just run the daily range
against them to take out the cell side
over here
okay but i want you to look inside this
five minute run here
and notice that this whole area is
shaded here that's the judah swing
that's the fake rally in a
down move that will be profitable for
shorts
but at the time retail won't see that
they won't identify they won't it won't
make any sense them they'll be caught
off guard
but i want you to go into that range
here
this
right here
that
is your displacement
price swing that right there
that's the leg on a five-minute chart
you strip that down
and you start going from five
four three two and one until you find
your fair guy you got
so we're going to do that now but i'm
showing you how you're going to put your
fib on the high
and the low of that
for those that don't have the benefit of
going back into hindsight you may be
watching this video far in the future
i've included it here that way it's
already done for you for for study
purposes
the
44 and a half level is equilibrium or 50
of the range between the high and the
low that
run here that drop down
why am i neuting this because we have
this swing low broken here
now it could have stopped there
and started to move up and we would use
that range from here to here but it just
kept breaking lower lower lower
so it broke below this low
and what looks like this low here so it
was several short-term lows that were
broken nonetheless this is the
displacement price leg
so this price swing here you shade that
while you're learning
and then you start breaking that down
into lower time frames so right now
we're on the five minute chart i'm going
to keep this shaded area here
one but we're just going to transition
from the five minute chart down to the
four minute chart
so here's the four minute chart
9 30 is this candle here that's your
judas swing at 8 30 it starts its run
this is the algorithmic price run
goes to friday's low rebalances the
entire range on monday's trading
it
changes the narrative when retail
traders think and it's created the low
all the bullish diversions they will be
seeing other indicators and such they're
they're screaming dubai and breakout
artists are looking at this break here
because they think this is resistance
broken now
oh it's coming back down to it this is
what is this resistance broken turn
support right okay breaks down a little
bit okay then it starts running okay oh
this is one of those instances where it
was
you know
went past a little bit but it's still
going to go higher
you can almost read into the price
action what retail would be expecting
here but we're looking for something
very specific
in this shaded area here we're looking
for a fair value gap do you see a fair
value gap
of you would say this
yeah i didn't know that you read my mind
ict
why not that one what if that what would
happen if i went into that and sold
short well first of all if you did that
you were not following the rules because
from this high down to that low this is
equilibrium we need to get to a premium
we don't want to sell in a discount
that's not what we're doing here so we
have to get to this level here 40 44 and
a half or higher
that's a premium
based on that price swing
do you understand what i just gave you
there
like that's a hardline rule that if you
just follow that
it will keep you out of so
many ill-fated
scenarios
now it's not a hundred percent that
you're gonna follow that and never take
a losing trade because some of you are
asking for that secret recipe like i had
that
if i had it i wouldn't give it to you
okay so it doesn't exist and i don't
have it so on both sides of defense just
stop looking for that
expect to lose money if you're gonna
trade and you're using live money you're
gonna lose money
it's a promise i'm guaranteeing you
you're always going to run into a
scenario that will eventually lose
capital money will be withdrawn from
your account it sucks it's not fun
nobody signs up for that they sign up
for well if it works in my favor i could
make money i could
make enough money to go on vacation each
year i could pay my car note those types
of things okay and some of you take it
to an extreme where you're going to be
rich and you ride around and
charge airplanes and drive around in
cars that cost too much money
to each their own
all i'm saying is i'm gonna teach you
how to read price
okay so let's keep it germane to that
so there's no
four minute
there they go
on the three-minute chart inside this
pink shaded area that's the displacement
leg
is there a fair value gap
you can pause the video here if you want
if you need more time
all right for those that
are prepared
there is no fair value gap here either
nothing to do yet
so you drop down into your two minute
chart
okay do you see a fair value gap
in the two minute chart you can pause
the video if you need more time
all right if you're not prepared
pause the video
lo and behold
the unicorn
here's the favorite you got
small little imbalance right in here
and we took out the short term low
now some of you might see this if you
were watching
the two minute chart okay
say you watched the two minute chart and
you saw this short-term low broken here
or maybe this one here and you saw this
is this
displacement
one could argue
perhaps it is
okay now i'm going to give you
the
alternative this is not twisting the
rules it's just showing you the logic of
when you put a trade on in your demo
account hear that
compliance
this movement lower
creates that fair bay guy
yes we have a short term load taken out
there okay
this entry
on this fair bay gap
if you utilize that where would your
stop loss be
it would have to be at least above the
candle that creates the fair bag gap
that's this one here
so your stop will be above here did it
hit it
no
so
even if you would have utilized that
you're not stopped out with this right
here now you might get scared to death
when it running up after it moved in
your favor like this then comes back and
retraces
but you cannot
listen to me folks
you cannot open a trade up like this and
put a stop above here
and watch it go down here and want to
trail your stop loss real tight you
can't do that
you have to hold
with a certain measure of risk open
and this is what
filters out so many people in this
industry they can't do this
they either rush to get out of a trade
that's marginally profitable because
they can't stand it
they're making money and they're so used
to seeing it turn against them and stop
them out or squeeze them if they don't
use stops and they get out with big
losing trades
once they start getting marginally
profitable trades they get out
prematurely they don't even hold it for
the models rules
or
they trail their stop-loss so tight so
quickly it strangles the position it
doesn't even give the chance to move and
breathe
so how do you do that we're going to
talk a little bit about stop placement
now
initially when opens the trade up the
rule is you want to use the candle that
creates the fair value you got that high
just above that okay one tick two ticks
above that that's sufficient enough if
you are scared
and you just want to use a nice handsome
ample stop you would use a swing hot
here oh that's a lot of movement so what
they have micro account positions that
you can trade with
so
you may not be trading them any
trade micros if it requires you that
much of a stop to sleep at night
okay knowing that what you're doing
isn't going to wreck and ruin you
then use micros
it's five dollars per point or handle
versus fifty dollars per handle on a
mini
so it's scalable it's something that
most people should be able to weather if
you can't weather something like that
with a micro then you're really trading
is you're not prepared to trade you
don't have enough equity and you're
underfunded okay
and i don't mean that to be
talking down to anybody that's just the
real
skinny okay a lot of people try to go in
here and they want to trade with 100
account and you're just asking to fail
you really are asking to fail
so you can't be under-capitalized but
once you place your stop here or
here when do you start moving your stop
well you want to see
a larger
shift in structure when this low is
taken out down here
then
you can move your stop down say it was
up here then you can move it to here
okay or maybe here
why
because it's already broke down so it's
not going to go down here and come back
up here if it does then you're probably
wrong or it's going to consolidate which
means it's going to be an ugly condition
to be working within anyway
see the logic there
i'm accepting the fact that i'm probably
gonna be wrong if it stops me out but
who cares if it does
why would i have that opinion of not
caring if it stops me out
how many times have you seen this
pattern form
think about it over the course of a week
how many times does a pattern form
it's forming somewhere every day
it's flowing everywhere either in the
london session overnight highs and lows
or it's forming in a new york session
i'm teaching the new york session
because you have the advantage of
knowing what took place in london
that's that's why i'm teaching this does
it work in london absolutely
does it work in asia
not
that often
and that's why i haven't pushed hard for
asia i know some of you hey i need to
know something in asia for those ideas
and those traders that are really
focused on
trading that time frame
and because they have businesses or
that's just the way they can trade only
it's the time that they can be in front
of the charts
you want to be trading the yen pairs for
forex you want to be trading the new
zealand dollar and australian dollar
they tend to have a little bit more
movement during those periods because
that's when their markets start so
you can look for this type of pattern to
form there on the one through
five-minute charts
in the asian session so
i gave you that that's as far as i'm
going to go with it i'm not going to be
doing all kinds of videos about it just
know it's one of the most ill liquid
times for me
i'm letting the market create those
periods of the day where
a lot of traders are starting early
because like anything else we're really
quick to get into something but we
rarely ever finish it
and
students that come under my wing
are really good testimonials about that
they'll come in they'll say i'm going to
stick with this but then they realize it
takes a little bit more effort than
they're ready for and they quit
and
trading in general is like that and they
think that because in
new zealand
wellington doesn't really begin today
they think and they teach and all these
other traders have to say you know
wellington starts the 24-hour cycle and
it does not start the cycle this is how
you know someone doesn't know what
they're talking about
these algorithms operate on new york
time and it begins at midnight period
and the story i don't care who's
brother's cousin's sister knows this guy
that works at a bank that says ict's
fool crap i don't care bring those
people here
challenge what i'm showing you here okay
show me how this is wrong that's all i'm
asking because i'm doing it
i'm proving it and everybody else is
seeing it themselves so
do you dismiss the evidence
do you ignore it you walk around with
blinders on
because
maybe i'm not the person that fits what
you were hoping for in terms of a mentor
i'm being honest and i'm proving it i'm
showing it to you it's repeating
why argue why wrestle with it
take it be thankful you know and and do
something positive with it
so here's what we have
we have the whole model
identifying a setup
moving back to a rebalance of monday's
price range
back up to friday's low
hitting that level there
and then creating the setup that's
happening at the time elements
the same way i teach it in the series
and here it is boom comes in hits it
breaks down
pairs up with a sell side liquidity
smart money sells short here
and then adds to it here
breaks
trades in here during the lunch hour
your limit order if it was used would be
filled during the lunch hour not around
12 30.
the only thing about this day that i did
not like is i would have rather seen it
deliver this movement here just ahead if
not right at 12 o'clock
that's the only thing that did not line
up with what i was expecting today
i was looking for this candle right here
to punch down and hit that level go
through it like it did here and it was
just about 27 minutes later
so that's not bad right i mean
looking at it like this
doesn't this make sense
seriously folks in
closing doesn't this logic
make sense
the market goes up to trick people and
they think it's going to go higher or
not those people that are short making
money going down in other words
their orders that protects them
or puts them in a new trade going up or
out of a short trade
that buy side liquidity is attacked
the algorithm goes up there not because
people bought it
not because smart traders work together
to get the trade to go up there because
of their buying pressure
that's not what this is folks
the algorithm goes up there whether
there is sufficient volume or not
that's
the dividing statement when i say those
types of things
people that think they understand these
markets people that have made money
doing things that have nothing to do
with how these markets book
it's hard for them to understand what
i'm saying because
their faith based religion on their
system
prevents them from seeing the obvious
logic that's being shown here
these markets are controlled they're
rigged and they're algorithmically
driven
how many times do you need to see these
things before you can just lay down
all the other ideas
there's no reason to buy other people's
courses and i'm not going to get flamed
for this and then i'm gonna invite more
trolls i don't care
okay
you don't need to buy
any courses
you don't need to be in anybody else's
subscriptions
okay teaching rehash stuff
what i'm showing you here
if you put the time in learning this
you will not need to do anything else
period you won't need to worry about
breakers so you won't need to worry
about mitigation blocks you won't need
to worry about buy side bill and sell
side inefficiencies
none of those things
that's also taught in the things i teach
in my private group why
why would you want anything more than
this this is so easy
this is so easy it doesn't inundate you
with so many things and variables that's
what's going on right now i'm gonna be
honest with you folks
my private group which no one can join
anymore
is so
rich
with things that make it almost
impossible for most of the students to
pick what they are going to settle in
because
everything i show works
but they can't
settle in on one thing because they're
like a kid in a candy store
and because of that they're not really
fully engaging with one specific
approach with this
listen to the comments we'll read the
comments actually some of them are
actually in the comments saying
this worked for me and they've been
charter members for years what was it
i did what i've trained them to do but
they weren't willing to do on their own
which is take what makes
sense
one pattern one setup
applied time and price
theories that i teach around the
algorithmic ideas
and then look for that one setup and
submit to it just that and make it very
very simple
that's what this is folks
i can do this with a breaker
i can do this with a mitigation block i
can do this with a
just a stop run on buy stops i can do it
with a run on cell stops i can simplify
all this
anything i trade with i can do this
the same way i can strip it down to a
simple model
there's no need to ask me to join my
private group folks so
please stop asking in the comment
section please stop sending me emails i
don't want your money
i don't need your money okay i don't
need any of those types of things
i i want to do what i'm doing here i
enjoy this
i have a t-shirt at heart i love doing
this and the fact that i'm seeing so
many people around the world dive into
this and find their own niche in it and
it only takes the time to invest in
reading
the things i'm showing in the chart
listening to the logic i'm teaching in
the audio commentary and then doing the
homework assignments of back testing and
looking at it
you will decide at that moment
if this is something that fits you if it
doesn't fit you there's no harm in that
i'm not offended by that i have people
that paid me that said i just can't make
this work for me and i have other people
that are killing it
what's the difference
personality
and capacity
some people can't do it at all some
people can do it they just haven't done
the proper things in the right order
this is a simplification
what i have done here in this series
whether you realize it or not
my mentorship group that have paid me
some of them were kicking and screaming
because i've done this
others majority have been very
appreciative because they have used this
to help understand what it is that they
should be doing with all the other
things i taught
now when i say that it sounds like i'm
dangling a carrot oh he's got more
secret stuff and this is better there is
nothing more
easier
readily made just go out and start doing
what i
than this okay
i swear to you
okay listen folks this is an invitation
if you are a
private member of my mentorship
okay
tell everyone in the comment section
that
this is something that has been spelled
out very simply and plainly
better than any other model
that i've done i've done 12 specific
trading models in my
private mentorship
this one here i stripped down i made it
very very simple with the expectation my
daughter would learn it
this
is the easiest
ict application
you're ever going to get
i literally sat down and said how can i
take something that
my daughter who has no interest
whatsoever
none
how can i make this so that way she
could see it when to expect it when will
it form how to figure out where it
should be
and what do you do once it forms
that's what i've done here
is it hard
for some of you it would it would feel
like it is because i'm reading some of
the comments
and it's because you haven't spent
enough time that's all but i promise you
when there's more examples shown and you
go through the videos a few times
it'll start to
become more clear
if you're trying to apply other things
like bollinger bands and garbage like
that
you're you're not using the model and
you're not going to get the results that
would be otherwise available to you if
you just do what i'm telling you to do
and avoid the things i'm telling you to
avoid
that's it
i promise you this
if you give this
um
three months
of study
serious
sleaze rolled up diligently going in
every single day back testing and
looking at it
and then
for at least two or three more months of
forward testing it
six months
six months with just what i've taught
here
i am confident i am absolutely confident
that you will have found
your
model
it's simple it's role based
it's visually pleasing to see because
you know what you're looking for it's a
specific time
pattern
with the algorithm so you're getting in
sync with what the algorithm is going to
do just like smart money does
okay
you want to be like the composite man
this is what the composite man's doing
he's not looking at white golf
schematics
and i know that might upset some of you
that's not my intent
but they're looking at liquidity like
this
they're looking at how the market's
going to
allow them
to fleece
the uninitiated
that's just the way it works folks
you might not like it it might feel
unfair so therefore i don't want to
believe this guy he's talking
conspiracies
call it whatever you want to call it
i call it the market
until next time
be safe